samples: matter: Added diagnostic logs required by the certification test case (#15875)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/protocols/matter/getting_started/advanced_kconfigs.rst

After the crash data is successfully read, it will be removed and further read attempts will notify the user that there is no available data to read.
To keep the crash log in the memory after reading it, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_DIAGNOSTIC_LOGS_REMOVE_CRASH_AFTER_READ` Kconfig option to ``n``.

Network and end user logs
-------------------------

The diagnostic network and end user logs are saved in the dedicated retained RAM partitions.
The logs are not removed after reading and in case of attempt to write new logs to the already full buffer, the oldest logs are be replaced.

> The diagnostic network and end user logs are designed to be pushed on the user demand.

Author: It's ok, I just wanted to highlight it, because e.g. crash logs are pushed internally by the app and user can't request it.

> Usually it is not convenient to duplicate all logger calls to pass the same information, but using other API.

Author: I'm not sure. I mean that one option is to redirect Zephyr logger, so we only call log and have two outputs - one printed on the console and the other saved to memory.
Other option would be to not redirect logs, so we would need to call some additional API just after log to send the same information to memory and this is not convenient (but someone may want to do it this way for some reason).

Due to that, for the network and the end user logs the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_DIAGNOSTIC_LOGS_REDIRECT` Kconfig option is enabled by default.

> The redirection functionality allows to save logs passed to the Zephyr logger in the retained RAM as a Matter diagnostic logs.

Author: I slightly changed it to:
With the Kconfig option enabled, the redirect functionality takes logs passed to the Zephyr logger and saves them in the retained RAM as Matter diagnostic logs.

After the crash data is successfully read, it will be removed and further read attempts will notify the user that there is no available data to read.
To keep the crash log in the memory after reading it, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_DIAGNOSTIC_LOGS_REMOVE_CRASH_AFTER_READ` Kconfig option to ``n``.

Network and end user logs
-------------------------

The diagnostic network and end user logs are saved in the dedicated retained RAM partitions.
The logs are not removed after reading, but when attempting to write new logs to an already full buffer, the oldest logs are replaced.

The diagnostic network and end user logs are designed to be pushed when requested by the user.

> Usually, it is not convenient to duplicate all logger calls to pass the same information, but using other API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can result in the same information being called by multiple APIs, which is usually not desirable bahavior.
```
Does this wording work?

Because of this, for the network and the end user logs the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_DIAGNOSTIC_LOGS_REDIRECT` Kconfig option is enabled by default.

With the Kconfig option enabled, the redirect functionality takes logs passed to the Zephyr logger and saves them in the retained RAM as Matter diagnostic logs.

> Only the following logs are redirected:
> * Logs from the ``chip`` module are redirected into diagnostic network logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only the following logs are redirected:

* Logs from the ``chip`` module are redirected into diagnostic network logs.
```

The configuration set consist of devicetree overlays for each supported target board, and a config file that enables all diagnostic logs features by default.
The devicetree overlays add new RAM partitions which are configured as retained to keep the log data persistent and survive the device reboot.
They also reduce the SRAM size according to the size of the retained partition.

> The parition sizes are configured using example values and may not be sufficient for your use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The partition sizes are configured using example values and may not be sufficient for all use cases.
```

> To change the partition sizes, for example increase them to be able to store more logs, you need to change the configuration in the devicetree overlay.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change the partition sizes, you need to change the configuration in the devicetree overlay.
You can, for example, increase the partition sizes to be able to store more logs.

```
Note the empty line at the end. The paragraph is long enough now that it makes sense to separate the sentence introducing the Kconfig options from the rest of the text.

The snippet sets the following kconfig options:

  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_DIAGNOSTIC_LOGS` to ``y``.
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_DIAGNOSTIC_LOGS_CRASH_LOGS` to ``y``.
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_DIAGNOSTIC_LOGS_REMOVE_CRASH_AFTER_READ` to ``y``.
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_DIAGNOSTIC_LOGS_END_USER_LOGS` to ``y``.
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_DIAGNOSTIC_LOGS_NETWORK_LOGS` to ``y``.

>   * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LOG_MODE_DEFERRED` to ``y``.

Reviewer 2: Should we have more comments on that, or do you think it is redundant?

Author: I can add additional explanation, similarly to the one that is in the .conf files's comment.

Author: Done.
